.TH SHOT "1" "July 2015" "shot" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
shot \- manual page for shot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B shot
[\fI\,options\/\fR]
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
Takes screenshots of your desktop.
.SH BASIC OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Shows this help.
.TP
\fB\-o\fR, \fB\-\-output\fR PATH
Saves the target image in PATH. The default file name is of the form
"\fByyyymmdd_hhiiss_rrr.png\fR", where "\fBr\fR" is a random character (example:
\fB20150721_103014_ukd.png\fR). If the PATH ends with \fB/\fR, it will be
appended with default file name. Target directory needs to exist prior to
invocation.
Currently, only PNG format is supported.
.TP
\fB\-\-list\fR
Lists all monitors and exits.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Shows shot's version and exits.
.SH REGION OPTIONS
.PP
By default, the region is equivalent to \fB\-\-desktop\fR.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-region REGION\fR
Takes region from string. \fBREGION\fR needs
to be of form \fBWIDTHxHEIGHT+X+Y\fR or \fBWIDTHxHEIGHT\fR.
.TP
\fB\-m\fR, \fB\-\-monitor NUM\fR
Takes region from \fBNUM\fR\-th monitor.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-desktop\fR
Takes region from the area bounding all monitors.
.TP
\fB\-M\fR, \fB\-\-active\-monitor\fR
Takes region from the currently active monitor.
.TP
\fB\-W\fR, \fB\-\-active\-window\fR
Takes region from the currently active window.
.TP
\fB\-i\fR, \fB\-\-interactive\fR
Creates a resizable and movable window, whose final position and size will be
used to derive the region.
.SH
INTERACTIVE REGION PICKER CONTROL
.PP
The interactive region picker's window can be moved with left mouse button
and resized with right mouse button. Following keyboard shortcuts are also
available:
.TP
\fBH\fR or \fBLEFT\fR
Moves left by \fIDELTA\fR.
.TP
\fBJ\fR or \fBDOWN\fR
Moves down by \fIDELTA\fR.
.TP
\fBK\fR or \fBUP\fR
Moves up by \fIDELTA\fR.
.TP
\fBL\fR or \fBRIGHT\fR
Moves right by \fIDELTA\fR.
.TP
\fBCTRL+H\fR or \fBCTRL+LEFT\fR
Shrinks horizontally by \fIDELTA\fR.
.TP
\fBCTRL+J\fR or \fBCTRL+DOWN\fR
Grows horizontally by \fIDELTA\fR.
.TP
\fBCTRL+K\fR or \fBCTRL+UP\fR
Shrinks vertically by \fIDELTA\fR.
.TP
\fBCTRL+L\fR or \fBCTRL+RIGHT\fR
Grows vertically by \fIDELTA\fR.
.TP
\fBQ\fR or \fBESCAPE\fR
Cancels (exits without taking a screenshot).
.TP
\fBENTER\fR
Confirms selection and takes a screenshot.
.PP
\fIDELTA\fR is 25px and 1px when \fBSHIFT\fR key is pressed.
.PP
By default, the interactive region picker starts with a 640x480 rectangle
centered on the primary monitor. This can be controlled by prepending other
region arguments before \fB\-i\fR. For example, "\fBshot \-W \-i\fR" will
create interactive region picker whose initial location and size is set to that
of the currently focused window.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B shot
.IP
Takes a screenshot of the area bounding all available monitors.
.TP
.B shot \-\-list
.IP
Doesn't take a screenshot and lists monitors instead.
.P
.B shot \-W \-\-output=/home/sseagal/
.IP
Takes a screenshot of focused window and saves it to \fB/home/sseagal/\fR.
.SH BUG REPORTS
All bug reports and feature should go to the GitHub page which is available at
\fIhttps://github.com/rr-/shot\fR.
.SH AUTHORS
Written by rr- (rr-@sakuya.pl).
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT.
